Cloud okay we're going to um restart our
regularly scheduled Board of Select me
meeting at 8:50 um we are on item
7B the nomination and election of a
board of selectman candidate to replace
Paula
king um do we have any uh nominations
for candidates I'd like to nominate
Stephen King
second so an Creet seconded okay um all
those in
favor
I all those
opposed i
i 2
two do we have any further nominations
I'd like to uh nominate Joseph
Godwin I'll second that all those in
favor I I all those
opposed okay um we've reached an impass
on this issue we discussed uh we wanted
to come out in public and and make that
vote um what we're going to do is in
moving forward we're going to have a
form member board for this point we're
going to convene with the town attorney
as to our options as to what we can do
we are also requesting the Republican
Town committee and um look for
additional candidates of all possible
for our next meeting if we can uh get to
that point and find an acceptable
candidate to all the members
um and we appreciate everything from all
the members and all the individuals that
did apply for this position and you can
still apply again um that's not what
we're saying we're just saying that um
the four of us did not come to a
resolution between ourselves so
um sit there and we will continue to
move on with our board meeting at this
point in time unless any of the other
members want to say anything because I
think it's pertinent that you state your
peace in
public I just want to say that as you
informed me today uh Jeff for another
reason totally separate reason that
there is a special meeting of the uh
Board of selectman um scheduled
generally for the 21st of this month
which is uh two weeks from today so the
board will be you know meeting again on
the 21st and you know there's no agenda
been set yet oh yeah there has been
there's an agenda I I looked at it today
because you you you told me I didn't
realize there was a meeting that that
that special meeting is not related to
it can't be related to I know it's not
it's just a it is a Q&A session for the
charter so anybody in town that has any
issues related what is being voted on at
the November election for the charter
revision okay probably go over that so
so let's actually take them as separate
issues if the board of selectman needs
to convene and have a special meeting to
vote and to have this discussion outside
of a regular meeting we can do that I I
have no problem with it um okay just
wanted
to all right okay good enough all
right um let's move on to item eight
town administrators report
Eric sure okay can you guys uh see me
and can I
share the uh can you give me
authorization to
share so I can share my report or do you
want me to just tell you orally no um
where did I have to go to
more to get you on as this
post tools oh see I share I think I'm
sharing my screen not your
screen right
correct so I think you have to go to you
should have as the administrator you
should have a a button on the side of
the
share thing that allows you to uh
um designate either you could either
designate me as a co-host and then I
could share I've already done
okay
and okay I'm G to make this
bigger so once again I apologize for
getting you the uh my administrator's
report Le sorry that's a little too
big so I'm just going to go through some
of the the key things of it um the I got
a note from Arts sign a couple hours ago
that the welcome sign is to complete so
that's been a long time in coming we
should hopefully have that installed uh
kind of in the next month um at the
location that the board already agreed
to um the sign below it we'll get to
later in the agenda that is the rails a
trail sign that the de asked the town uh
to install both on town roads and to get
permission from the uh so so that is
something you would have to weigh in on
as the local traffic
Authority
um so as of tomorrow we will have
wrapped up the HVAC project for the town
hall with the the firing up of the gas
uh from furnace and boiler in the town
hall um I did submit the second dot
micro Grant um one of the items on there
that we requested funding for was to
hold an adult bike safety class that
will be scheduled for October 26 so if
any members of the audience have
interest in learning how to be a safer
cyclist um the announcement will be put
out shortly that Joel that uh Grant also
included uh the ability to purchase
safety vests for all the AES students as
well as Supply additional safety vs for
the adults that will be located in the
community center and town clerk's office
um we also intend to run a Bike Rodeo uh
for the kids at ATS to promote bike
safety next spring um and we have money
in the budget to provide helmets for the
participants we're also hoping to find
two additional Andover res
to send to the uh League of American
bicyclist instructor
training so we did get a little bit of
of good news and that is we finally got
the arpa grant that's specifically for
the senior center uh approved that came
through uh yesterday so now we're going
to look at spending that money on uh
equipment for the kitchen so we'll get
the kitchen a good ways towards being a
functional Kitchen in that building um
we also hired Randazzo design Consulting
to uh you know
re uh rockhound and then seed the areas
outside the community center and they
will finish that up tomorrow um also
Wednesday we're going to finally get the
fiber run into the community center so
we should be able to hopefully in Fairly
short order get the VoIP phones
installed um and also the rest of the it
working in the
building
um and one of the things that I just
received today that I want to talk to
the board about is we received a request
from the elementary school to provide
transport to one student on a daily
basis
um to uh attend essentially a gifted
program
at the high school um they don't really
have the bus capability to do it the
town could potentially do it with our uh
our bus Without Really impacting
anything at this point and the school is
aware that on those days when we have SK
trips scheduled um you know we wouldn't
do that so we still need to check with
the program Administration to make sure
that we can do that but I think we can
with our existing 2017 bus we would
charge them the same mileage
reimbursement as currently so I'd just
like to ask the board if you have any uh
issues with me pursuing that as a town
because it will save the school money
and it shouldn't really impact the
senior Transportation program I don't
know whether the board wants to weigh in
on that but if you do um should we
should we weigh on in these things as
they come up Eric well that's not on the
agenda because I just got that literally
an hour before the meeting so I don't
know when when when does it need to
start and why do you need to use one of
the buses why can't you use the RAV4 or
one of the smaller
Vehicles well we could but the problem
is then we would have to go ahead and we
would have to put uh all the carrying
school children logos on a second
vehicle um so that's the only downside
of not using we could use the Rav 4 um
because that one is definitely we bought
that with the town funds um but at the
same time the rav force is used during
that same time frame pretty regularly
doing medical trips so we would just be
switching medical trips to one of the
Vans um instead of using that okay and
when does it need to start uh I don't
have a start date for it at this point
okay
then get us on the phone and and let's
sit there and see if you know we'll
prove it I mean it would be nice to know
on a start date but find out the rest of
the information and then let's get it
done we should yeah okay we should you
know work on
this yep okay uh so we did hold the flu
in in covid clinic today we vaccinated
68 people and gave a total of 105 shots
so that was pretty good um on a another
important note we've been trying to fill
the Zeo and white enforcement officer
position now for about three months
because Jim Hy has indicated he has
retired um we finally after that period
ended up with two candidates um that
applied um neither of them have any real
zoning experience
um they were both really good candidates
they have a lot of experience just not
with zoning so they both have
enforcement type experience but not a
lot of experience with zoning regs so we
have identified a candidate um the
interview panel was myself Scott Pan and
the chair of the Planning and Zoning
commission uh Jed Larson um so what I
would like to do is hire and over
resident Wayne Kasich but what we're
going to need if we hire him is a fairly
long overlap between him and Jim um
because he's going to need to get up to
speed on zoning um which he definitely
is not at this point so basically what
I'm proposing to do is we hire him uh at
about $27 an hour 2750 an hour um and at
the point when he's cap AP of working
unassisted he would go to $31 an hour um
and when Jim retires and then his final
salary will be what the current salary
is when he receives his queso
certification and the zoning commission
is uh happy with um I'm coming to you
because ultimately as a board you're the
one that needs to approve any hiring
decisions so do you have any question
questions for me regarding that and this
has to you know I'm glad that Eric
brought this to the board tonight
because we have to act on
this we have to talk about it and then
you know hopefully act on it because we
get the time is uh running out for Jim
Hy long as long how he long is he going
to stay here so it would be good if we
could get Wayne involved you know right
away if we could
listen Mr Hy didn't have any experience
when he first started doing this I
thought you know he was trained
extensively by attorney O'Brien and you
Eric uh no Mr Hy was a pretty
experienced Zeo when we hired him five
years ago um he had quite a bit of
planning credentials also he was
basically just retired from an an
equivalent full-time yeah he worked his
whole life at it in Manchester from an
enforcement perspective though which is
what we're focusing on
right uh he had been a
Zeo um quite a bit before he took the
job in and being a Zeo was not a a
stretch
for I mean look if we can get Mr Kasich
up to speed
earlier um we would certainly do it and
I mean Jim doesn't really have any
particular
desire to work any longer than he has to
but the the reality is there's a lot of
towns looking for Zeos right now and we
don't really have an
opportunity to unlike the last time when
we hire Jim um you know we had multiple
people with Zeo experience applying um
we just weren't willing to pay them what
the going rate was in this case we can't
even get anybody with Zeo experience to
apply um and frankly there's a bunch of
towns that pay better than us right now
that are looking for positions too so I
think the likelihood of
us having to do something other than on
the job training um is pretty small so
that's what I'm that's what my goal is
with
this this guy does have a lot of
experience in
forcing just not zoning he spent his
whole life enforcing
regulations okay
um I mean do you need us Eric to approve
his hiring or what do you want from us I
mean technically you're the ones that
should be uh approving any permanent
hiring so a motion to approve hiring
Wayne Kasich would be uh you know would
be appropriate if you want to talk to
him he is on this Zoom call um so you
could certainly talk to him directly if
you so chose I mean we don't need to
he's your chosen candidate right correct
and Scott was on the board or on the
hiring committee correct
okay Scott do you want to make that
motion I uh make a motion to allow Ando
uh Eric to hire when Wayne Kasich for
the
zoning enforcement
agent I'll second that second that and
second did that great and second did
that um further discussion on
that all those in favor I
I I Jeff I 40 okay okay perfect I will
make that happen uh moving on we do have
an discuss coming up between J Tuttle
myself and eversource regarding tree
trimming on burnap Brook Road um we're
hoping to get them to contribute again
to our tree trimming planning um Public
Works is going to do some shimming on
Cone Road and Gilead um because both
those roads have seen some really bad uh
you know poth holes lately um and we
want to do essentially a rough shim on
those roads and just a couple of the
worst sections of Skinner Hill Road
prior to Winter um so that's just is
just as a question isn't con Road about
six years
old uh maybe a little yeah six or seven
yeah and
so why just so we understand and we
don't make the same mistakes again what
was the problem with that we didn't we
didn't do a good enough job on the on
the sub substrate on that road exactly
that's exactly the case that was a
decision by the board uh based on some
public feedback that were very unhappy
that it wasn't paved to uh pave uh Cone
Road um and there was never any real
subbase on the road so that was a okay
that was an issue going back to original
conditions on the
road and is so so you're just trying to
shim or do a pothole filling on that
road just to get through the paving
season yeah we're we're band dating it
at the moment yes very when I lived on
that section of Cone Road it was a dir
Road
correct and when it got paved it got
paved it just got paved it got paved
over the real subbase put on it right
over the
dirt all right
go ahead yeah
unfortunate so just so everybody knows
regarding Bunker Hill Road in the bridge
at Bunker Hill Road there is a current
RFP for the construction firm has been
issued closing date is October
31st um with the assumption that we're
talking about a February 15th start date
for the project and utility
relocation um the town doesn't need to
do a whole lot for this because this is
a fully funded project there's a
specific plan in place already for the
bid review basically CD Maguire the
engineering firm is responsible for
reviewing all the bids and determining
who legally meets uh as the lowest
qualified
bid um so that will be going on
hopefully we should uh you know a firm
should be selected pretty soon after
October 31st so we can get that project
rolling um after a long time so who was
doing the tree cutting down there is
that
already uh established so Public Works
will do that in uh November um not
public works but Public Works will hire
either tenant probably tenant to do the
tree removal in November so how many
trees are there down there that have to
be C so there's like
six um trees that need to come out it's
not a ton but that is because there's a
new federal uh species threatened
species that have been identified we
have to take the trees down now prior to
the bridge program starting um or else
we have to wait until a very short
window in April which will delay the
initial moving of utilities so the town
is going to take that on in
November um last thing on my report is
we reconstituted the town Safety
Committee as many of you know as an
employer we are required to have a
Safety Committee we've been kind of
slacking as a town I have specifically
so we reconstituted the committee um we
had a meeting on October 1st of those we
came up with a couple uh action items
we did agree to purchase aeds for Public
Works um given that the majority of the
employees there are 55 or older um and
we've worked out with with the fire
department to conduct employee training
once we have the new units we're also
adding stop the the bleed kits for
Community Center town hall and Public
Works um and as part of the Grant
application that we have in we're going
to do a little awareness campaign and
encourage residents to wear reflective
vests when walking near Dusk and Dawn um
both for plow season and also because
this is pedestrian uh safety month for
uh the federal do so that's basically
everything I have from my report unless
you have questions for me on any of the
material that I do we have to weigh in
on that sign the D is putting up uh we
do have to weigh in on that but that is
on the agenda um that is item uh 10 D A
through
C okay two two things on my end you
didn't mention that um you had a meeting
with uh representative Courtney at the
senior center the other day and were
given uh some contact information to try
to uh improve our performance in Federal
grant applications so um should have
added that one and the other thing is
from the uh senior under the Safety
Committee and as you write safety grants
there was a recommendation at the senior
luncheon about uh solar lighting uh
Street lighting
um I thought that was a rather good idea
so let's sit there and see if there's
any opportunities for different areas
within the community where we don't have
to pay eversource for electricity to
light the streets we can actually do
some solar lighting it might work well
so get good idea any grant funding for
that that would be great sure and and I
have a question about the outfitting of
the community center also what what were
you planning on
buying
so
without say again the list that you had
before uh a good chunk of the list so we
know we can buy anything that's movable
and not run a fowl of state rolles so
we're going to buy the uh refrigerator
we're going to buy the freezer um we're
probably going to buy a commercial
microwave um we'll probably buy some
shelving we'll probably buy the coffee
maker for making the full air pots full
of coffee for senior and community
events and we're going to buy a com
combo water and ice maker um since those
are just tabletop devices that have a
single water
connection so that's what we're
envisioning and then depending on how
money goes we'll look at other things to
flush out the rest of the funds within
the
brand very
good
okay anybody else have any questions for
Eric all right let's move on to old
number item nine old
business discuss an act upon the
following 9A Community Center signage
discussion do we have anything F further
to discuss on that Eric do you have any
renderings for it we do not at the last
meeting you were going to or the board
was going to consider coming up with uh
what you wanted for lettering and an
overall design for the sign so that was
your an action item from the board's or
not mine all right we'll put that off
for next meeting send a text to
somebody
okay um 9B discussion of blight and
level of
involvement I don't have any updates for
this meeting okay 9C the tri board
policy on AES capital projects
um okay that that is in the
packet uh is the one that was written um
and approved by the Board of Ed um and
reviewed by the board of finance and
then Dennis O'Brien the town's attorney
also put in what he felt was a
uh more correct
version of how that was written so those
are both in your packet to review and
Dennis can probably give you more uh
input on that than I
can yes yes I was asked by
uh uh I think it was Mark Brinker was
the board of Finance or some
intermediary that it was going to go to
the board of Selectmen and they asked me
for a uh my opinion on it so I uh spents
a goodly amount of time as I often do on
on projects and uh came up with uh
decided to instead of adopting what they
had written which was pretty good I I
looked at some uh some drafts that Eric
had written in the past and uh did a lot
of independent research and came up with
a u policy that was more to my liking
and it was in the form of I put it in
the form of an agreement among the three
major boards in the town Board of
Finance Board of selectman I should say
Board of selectman first Board of
finance and Board of
Education um I had some variances from
the policy that was recommended uh
adopted by the Board of
Education one was that um they wanted to
set up a a three three board uh a tri
board with six members on it two from
each board I recom recommended that
there be one from each board and that
that member be the first selectman of
this board the chairman of the the
chairman of the other two boards with
the uh Vice for selectman being an
alternate and the other boards having
their Vice chairs as alternates and the
other thing I uh put in there that they
didn't have in there was
that I thought whenever you know it's a
question of if they have excess money at
the end of a at the end of fiscal year
where does it go I mean they already
have the authority to reserve 2% of it
into a special Capital fund that is
under by Statute this would be a fund
that is an addition to that and I made
it they didn't say anything at all about
uh you
know you know whether whether they could
do that on their own or whether somebody
else needs to approve that and I I I put
in that the board of Finance needs to
approve it if they're going to withhold
money and put it into a special uh fund
that they're going to they're going to
retain for Capital uh Capital products
in in in at at the school uh I believe
that the board of Finance should be you
know should say whether they can or not
they should you know in advance whether
the board can withhold additional funds
for that Capital fund I tried to
streamline it put it in the form of
agree an agreement and uh
what I what I what I did was uh in your
packet it's the second item I believe
there's two items both two pages
long and the first item is the one that
was drafted by I believe it was drafted
by uh Shannon Loden of the Board of Ed
and uh Robert England of the board of
finance and uh I agreed with a lot of it
and there were some items that I took
from uh prior drafts that Eric had
written one one it can I can I ask I ask
a couple just a couple questions yeah
um don't we already have a process for
this by going to CIP and getting funding
for what needs to be done in the
community aren't we just adding
more layers of bureaucracy onto
this that's not I'm asking I'm asking
Dennis an I'm asking Dennis and and Eric
actually well
uh the CIP is involved in the process
anyway because the CIP would make
recommendations to the uh Board of
Finance if the board ofi I didn't put
them in here the board of education has
a member on CIP CIP makes
recommendations and those
recommendations get funded appropriately
based upon the overall needs of the
community correct am I missing something
in our process you would have to I'm not
that familiar with the way CIP works I I
I I know what it is I've read about it
in the charter I've often wondered why
it why it exists but um the um Eric
would know more about how it operates I
don't O Okay so the where where it
becomes questionable with
CIP is see in the charter that the CIP
is a committee that's establish lished
by Charter right um and in the charter
one of the things that's in there is a
statement that the school is ineligible
or is exempt from CIP in other words
does not have to go to
CIP
but the the flip side of that is because
Capital requests and major capital
building projects really are the the
Bailey Wick of the board of
Selectmen I personally think CIP still
has a role um but that's open to
interpretation and and I'm not an
attorney so I can't weigh in on that I
think it has a role as an advisor not as
a not as a decision maker and I and I
think it is well the board of Finance is
the end decision maker to be hon well
you
know is the the way I see it the board
of Selectmen is the primary board in
town the board of s that that is that is
not how I see our power our power is to
advise and sit there and say these are
projects that we should consider it goes
to it goes to CIP CIP sits there and and
sits there and goes back to the board of
Finance to get any spending approved in
this
town the board of Selectmen doesn't
approve any spending and the board of
Finance has a seat on this Tri the board
of correct I understand but I'm asking
I'm
Cent
process why why are we trying to put
another layer on top of the current
process create this no no no I am not
asking and and tell you I think I should
just get rid of it I I don't I could
I'll let you go and you tell me why we
should be creating
this why okay um this is because the
school is asking to the board of
education is asking to have a new
fund or new source new place to put
money when it's extra from the year's
budget they have the 2% they can already
put into the other fund but this is when
they have extra money instead of having
to return it to the T school to the town
because they um this money was
designated for the school and they want
to keep it for the school so this was
designed for that and it was just that
the the tri board three boards are all
involved in how that money is then spent
um but it's I have a number of problems
with this new um agreement that Dennis
had put together of can I point those
out
now yeah I want to hear all about it
okay I do
um one thing is that they wanted the
membership to be from two two members
from each
board and not just three with alternates
but they wanted the six people two from
each board um why is that
better why is that better I want to
interrupt you but you you raised that
that's a that's an issue that I I
couldn't agree with disagree with you
more involving more and more people does
not does not make it better well this is
what they the agreement
agreement between the board of finance
and the Board of Education and is this
from you or is this from the people that
wrote the
document I'm looking at these two I'm
asking you are your points are your
points that you're bringing up your
points or the points of the individuals
that wrote the
document well it's looking at the
document they
wrote okay that's what I'm looking at I
did that and I and I decided that go
ahead
um one of the big things is that down in
section two it says During the period
from July 1st to August 15th the Board
of Ed May deposit the previously
appropriated money in that's not going
to work because they've got to wait till
the audit is done to know what money
they really have left otherwise they
could be wrong and they could put in try
to put in more money than they really
have left what what what date would you
suggest uh it simply has to say after
the audit is completed which because
there's not a definite date that the
audit will be done by so wait a minute
you're talking about the following uh
following calendar year going into going
that
far it might be to two months it might
be three months sometimes audits take a
lot longer I just picked that dat out of
my out of thin air because I and you
know it's got to be done soon soon
sooner rather than later well you do
want it to be done sooner but putting a
deadline like August 15 that will never
work because what's you got to have a
deadline you can't deine you could say a
month within two weeks or within a month
after the audit is completed when is the
audit normally
completed I don't know exactly but think
of how long it's taken the town to
finish their audit sometimes well that's
what I'm concerned about so so that that
that gives the Board of Ed uh months and
months and months to sit on this on this
money I mean it can't be helped last
year they thought they had 120,000 left
I believe and then when they finished
the audit they found it was like 104 105
well you're making sense but uh but I
think it's got to be done more more
quickly than
that I have a
question yeah what was the inspiration
for
this I mean what came up that they
someone thought that they needed to have
this I believe it was
because the school needed to have a cap
a fund for Capital items and they didn't
have one and this was a way to start
developing one that's not true town can
also we created that fund we created the
fund and we funded select created that
fund funded the fund okay so they can
have that's true so what what is
occurring here in this document which B
which
just it shows a lack of understanding
that this board will do what is right it
is an issue that this the the the Board
of Education primarily is not believing
that the board of Selectmen will do what
is right and appropriate for the entire
community and that's what bothers me
we're putting in a whole other layer and
we're saying hey Board of Education if
you are over budget greater than 2%
because this is what you're we're saying
greater than 2% we're going to take what
we over budgeted and we're going to put
it in this fund and now we're going to
have control of that fund to do capital
projects so so that's what this this is
saying to me and I'm sorry I I don't I
don't we have a process that's why I
changed it so that
the control I don't believe that most of
the time when there's money at the end
of the year that's left over it's not
due to the budget being too high it's
because Valerie and Taylor did a great
job of getting in Grants and maybe they
had extra that year because of all the
grants they brought in and you don't
want to penalize them because of that
they should be able to save that and use
it towards capital projects someday well
my way of looking at it an is that this
can happen without that big document
that same thing could happen without the
document um I I would like to understand
that an i would I would like to
understand that and I don't want to
penalize anyone for working hard to get
grants for our community that's not what
I'm saying but we are putting in an
extra layer and what it is saying to me
is that I won't as a member My Vault
won't be cast to do what's right for the
community and right for the school that
that's and and and honestly I don't even
approve I'm not I'm not on the board of
Finance I don't have the ability to say
I'll spend it or I won't spend it they
decide decide whether they'll spend it
or don't spend it we recommend to put
money just like we recommended to put
$100,000 in the school building fund
that we established because we know we
have issues we know we've got to get
them solved we know we've got to help
them but this document to me is another
layer of bureaucracy and and this and
the Board of Education not the one I
wrote you're talking about theirs right
no both of them even yours is the same
thing mine is better mine is better
yours is better I don't care better I'm
talking about the the whole process it
includes the board of Selectmen which is
which was ignored in the other I don't
care if
we're I mean we already have a process
in place this is putting another level
of Jeff and I can see the board of
education's point on this too because
there's nothing is going on right now
we're all just debating you know
standing around and debating and we're
not really getting any with this Capital
fund that we're working in
so I can see I can kind of see their
side you know to to get something
established so that we can you know move
this whole thing forward I so I get
their side a little bit too think I'm
not saying I don't Scott I'm not saying
I don't and I'm not saying I don't
understand what they're asking for I'm
asking for why right right I I you gotta
be able to look at both of these sides
here and de's point is very valid
valid very valid and the board of
education is you know trying to figure
out a way forward I think well the way
forward currently is they get to keep
because the state just changed its law
and and it statute that that that the
board without approval from anyone else
gets to keep 2% of their over budget
money they keep it in a fund and they
use it you know for their purposes yeah
right that's for non- Capital stuff and
I see what I what I also see is distrust
between the Board of Education and the
board of Selectmen and that's because of
things that have happened in the
past what that have happened with the
Board of Education and the the monies
I'm still asking
what tell me happened yes what happened
well like a year ago when they had money
left at the end of the year they wanted
to put it towards fixing the parking lot
the upper level and they kept running
into roadblocks and saying that they
couldn't do it that's one thing other
things is they just feel like they
haven't I know one thing that started
with this is they wanted to try to find
out what a capital project was and they
finally
just put down there at the bottom that
non reoccurring
it's the non
reoccurring things that
are
yeah my my copy yeah that's good that's
pretty much the same yep the
um the the membership of the board is
what's a bit different and how they
vote they really wanted to have the vote
with all six people for the first two
votes and then if they couldn't come up
with an agreement they would go back to
their boards and each board would decide
how they were going to vote and they'd
send one person to vote finally and I
know it's a little bit more it's way too
complicated well this is what the board
of finance and the Board of Education
Shannon and Robert worked on for a whole
year I know and I feel like we should
allow them those two boards they're the
ones that are dealing with us more than
the board of Selectmen we should approve
that for them but the way wrote
it the the the whole thing here is that
there's a distrust
between the Board of Education Board of
Selectmen Board of finances always has
been because of things that have
happened over there that weren't right
and like I said Jeff that they're trying
to figure out a way forward and you know
the whole driveway thing is just sitting
there nobody's working on the driveway
now we got a big plumbing issue we got
you know four or $500,000 worth of work
that needs to be done and they're
they're looking for a Way Forward I
would say and and we're not and we're
not giving them the way forward or we
we're not
even addressing what it
is we got we have to so they established
this thing Shannon and
uh Robert robt England to you know to
go forward with this now I read through
it there there was things in there that
I didn't really like either but we need
to address the situation some manner so
you're telling me Scott that we're not
thinking about what capital projects
need I absolutely believe we talk about
it for five months Every Spring every
okay um that's why that's why I'm
whatever whatever anybody wants to do
let's see what you
got I've already forward on this I mean
we do you wna you wna do you want to
work out
wording yeah okay and I'm not saying
that we need to use their their agenda
we can come up with our own agenda or we
or can we can have denn do it I'm just
that's what I tried to do I tried to
give you something we there is a process
in the community that can be followed
and will work if everybody just
participates come with the programs did
the school come to the board of
Selectmen prior to the decision to redo
the parking lot did the did did the
Board of Education go to CIP and tell
them that the driveway was in state okay
there's a process let's follow the
process we can all work together no one
on this board is unreasonable but my
we cannot follow we cannot not we cannot
follow a a process to work together to
sit there and get things done and so now
what the board of education is doing is
saying we're over budget and we're doing
a great job and this and this I'm GNA
paraphrase we're doing a great job we're
getting a lot of Grants so we offset
some of our expenditures and we reduced
our total costs against our budget
because we push those costs to Grants we
want to you we want to have control of
how we use this money
I have no problem working together with
somebody to say how we use that money
but the process currently is you keep
the 2% lapsing fund and the rest of the
money goes back into the the the town um
general fund and then those funds are
then determined how it's best used for
capital
projects the school is our biggest asset
it has to be the biggest taker of all of
our spend that was a good paraphrase
Jeff very good it's just a reality we
put a $400,000 roof on that building six
years ago yeah don't tell us that we
don't spend money on that school do we
communicate as best we can absolutely
not I will flat out I stand here and
I'll agree with you because I'll tell
you why we don't communicate as well
anybody on this board included in on the
drafting of that
proposal no no no because it was between
the board of finance and the Board of
Education
mostly then what do you want for me ad
was I was I communicated to no I wasn't
but there is a
process we have it in place if you
choose the CIP but the town the school
doesn't have a capital Improvement fund
which it doesn't own the
building
well systems they have Capital
Improvement funds even if you say they
don't own the building they have a fund
in other towns but we don't that's why
they want to get one we just one quick
point we do have a fund we do the board
of Finance with the approval of the
board of
Selectmen approved a fund last year
right um we moved money from the old AES
unexpended capital from the the last uh
project mentioned in the agreement I
wrote and added 100,000 to it this year
and then so the idea is this it's going
to be guiding that and it will have the
three boards
involved one three
boards you don't want to involve
everybody it's a waste of
time make a decision do you want to go
back to Dennis O'Brien and you want to
try to work out a document yeah you
wanna if that's the goal then fine have
try to have at it but I believe there's
a process in place I just tried to give
you something you could work with Board
of Selectmen and work with the other two
boards and and everybody would live
happily ever after there wouldn't be any
kind of of thing you know the kind of
situation I want to go back to is the is
the community center and what happened
with that okay that wasn't that wasn't
fun either that was that was we don't
need to rehash old stuff I don't go
forward so Scott and an since you two
are what would you like to do related to
this what you said tonight was
absolutely factual there's we need as a
board to come up with a plan to you know
establish like I said A Way Forward we
have to if you're just going to say that
you know we already have a we already
have the charter to tell us how what to
do
if that's as far as we're going to go
we're still going to be in the same spot
I think you're right you're right
Scott listen what is the same
spot of SEL the board of Selectmen
recommending to the board of Finance to
spend money to repair items within the
school the school and the and the
superintendent and the board members can
all come to us and tell us what they
need to get fixed and then we can figure
out if we have the available resources
to fix what they're asking us to fix and
if they happen to be over budget that
money ends up in the general fund and
gets used to fix those items I mean it's
not that complicated we don't need to
complicated anymore as far as I'm
concerned if if the this board wants to
do that and complicate it and and gets
enough votes for it have at it it's
what's the rules of the town I'm just
telling you it can be done we know we've
got to do things we're not unwilling to
do things it's not like this board i'
I've been on this board 10 years we have
we're very willing to do never
communicated never said no to the Board
of Education as far as I know we have
had Community problems within budgeting
yes that is true but this board honestly
my entire time even the previous group
of people that were on this board we
never did anything to the the board of
Education we don't have any control over
the Board of
Education all we have to do is work
together on the Improvement of the
building the upkeep of that building the
upkeep of the parking lots that's our
job
yeah um we we need to talk to them about
this whole subject I
think in some way I I don't know what
way
means have no problem I just believe
there's a process in place we just all
need to work together we need to do a
better job I need to do a better job the
members of the Board of Education need
to do a better job the the members of
the board of Finance do a great job I
mean and they they sit there and they
just approve it it's yes or no will you
spend the money or you won't spend the
money that's their
job well they felt there was a need to
have this fund this helps to understand
how the money goes into that Capital
Improvement fund and how it is spent um
I think it's I know
CIP but I think this would give a better
basis than just CIP because CIP is just
the spending of it not the putting it in
to the fund to into this fund if you put
in the general fund that's not helping
out the the uh Capital fund for the
school well if I understand it correctly
Eric and please tell me if I'm wrong did
CIP recommend that we put $100,000 in
the building fund absolutely viip did
not we did we did the board we and then
the board of Finance agreed to that
corre board of Select did it so what the
what the board of Finance intended when
they created the fund was a capital fund
that excess funds could be put into or
the town could budget annually for that
and add money to the funds and have a
Permanent Fund specific like all the
other Capital funds that they have but
specifically towards Capital maintenance
capital projects at AES so that fund is
created um there's currently a fair
amount of money in there um because the
Board of Ed put I believe
$104,000 in it there was already $88,000
in it the town contributed another
$100,000 through the budget process so
that money is sitting there presumably
if the Board of Ed has excess funds they
have the ability to request currently
that the board of Finance put that money
into that fund as opposed to returning
it to the general fund so they have the
right to do that the Board of Education
also has the the right to spend from the
2%
[Music]
non-linguistic well that's what the
statute says
okay I have to I am really reluctant to
disagree with you Eric but that is on
something like that but uh because
you're there every day plugging away but
I I really think that that 2% fund is
for maintenance and you know not capital
projects okay I think
clear I'm gonna I'm gonna ask I'm gonna
ask I'm willing to help with this but I
I you guys I mean I just I just spent a
lot of time re rewriting that thing I
was asked to do it and uh
I don't know um CIP is a part of the
charter it's it's there of course it's
part of it but you're not going to take
everything that's in the damn Charter
and put it in a short agreement it's
part of it um I I would ask other
members the other members of of the
board so Jeff and Scott and I know where
Ann is please communicate with Dennis
and tell him directly the meeting what
you want him to sit there and address
within this document if you want him to
address anything within the document or
um and then let's put this on the agenda
for a next cycle and then I will reach
out to Celeste and next regular meeting
after the election
yeah okay anybody have a problem with
that okay thank you thanks Dennis
um 9e a king property agreement so
Dennis we're coming back to you where do
you stand currently Jeff can I in
interrupt one thing we did Skip item
9C and I think we could wrap this up in
about five seconds I sent this all my
recommendations for how we make the
building department uh the costs for
building permit fair you all got a
spreadsheet our building officials
willing to to fill that out and adjust
anybody's fees that are inappropriate
based on that calculations if the board
is in agreement with that and wishes to
to give me that guidance I didn't have
any problems with the document that you
provided us anybody
else I mean because I was trying to do
the math I'm assuming that you're going
to do first floor square footage second
floor square footage overall square
footage for the electrical permits
overall square footage for the plumbing
permits so on and so forth correct right
what is the percentage of the
actual costs versus what we get in
permit Eric what what should they be and
what what are you calculating that they
are going to
be so generally across the board we
estimate it as it works out to
1.5% of the construction cost of the
estimated construction cost of the
project that's that's what I got
1.7 but um what should it
be it should be whatever the town
chooses it to be I mean the goal was
always for the building department to
basically pay for itself in permit fees
the question then became do you want it
to try to cover the fees for the whole
land use so including planning and
zoning and wetlands Which is far more
problematic to collect enough fees to
cover the whole agency
cost you look at the what we get for
building permits versus the estimated
the estimated cost and they're estimated
too everybody underestimates every
single one of them and and it bothers me
that every month this is happening to
the town and we're getting burnt every
month
so approve the
spreadsheet it's at least in
the is it going in the right direction
oh
absolutely it's definitely going in the
right direction it will go in the right
direction Scott well we'll check it next
month to see check it we can we can up
the rates if we choose to but but at
least the estimate will be based upon
the square footage of the project it'll
be based upon some some tangible fact
not an arbitrary estimate of the overall
building costs which we know are totally
deflated they are you know they are I
know
reasonable so use the spreadsheet if the
building inspector is willing to
implement that spreadsheet I'd say
implement it immediately I'll make a
motion well two years ago he told us he
would do this but that never happened
either let's go we're doing it now make
ation make a motion that I'll make a
motion that we uh authorize the building
inspector
to utilize the spreadsheet that was
provided to us to calculate uh future
building permits fees I'll second time
further
discussion all those in favor I I okay
sorry for skipping that Eric yeah no
worries thank you thanks for revisiting
it yeah um uh ninee King property
agreement Dennis where are we where we
are is uh I have been working the last
part of last week for quite a while with
the attorney for the king
family uh Mr Tom mcdermit from
Waterbury and I have gone over the uh
meets and Bounds and all the maps and
all the details of the transaction the
papers he's he's developed and um found
some uh things that had to be changed
minor mostly uh one thing I did do is
insist that we get a warranty deed for
the property that's going to us and he
has uh graciously agreed to give us a
warrant deed whereas on the other hand
we're only giving them a quick claim
deed for the what we're quit claiming to
U the king
family anyway uh we have uh decided that
we're going to go forward with this real
soon subject to your approval and and I
prepared a uh a motion for you to
approve today which I sent to Eric and I
think I sent Jeff a copy and if you
would like I'd read it to you right
now um if anybody has any questions I'll
be glad to try to answer them would say
before this this approval is done sorry
to interrupt Jeff but that our zoning
officer goes out and takes the deed and
goes over the property and make sure
that where it says there's a pen there's
a
pen why is that required
because because it it's as soon as you
signed the deed they'll never put the
pin
in
okay very important
Jeff okay um you talking about all the
things that are on the plans uh Scott
yeah make sure that what's on the plan
it says a pin make sure the pin's where
it's supposed to be okay I'm glad you're
asking the zoning officer to do that
because that I'm not the right person to
ask to do that I think you know
that that's
fine okay um Dennis read your motion
that fit that fits in with my my motion
okay where it's where okay it's it's a
little bit
longer than you might want of course it
has been agreed to by the attorney for
the
Kings whereas the board of Selectmen has
been assured by Town attorney Dennis
O'Brien that he and attorney Thomas F
McDermot representing the uh Julie King
and Lisa marola king the kings are both
fully satisfied that all necessary legal
requirements pertaining to the two
transfers of property expressly
contemplated by and encompassed within
the town of Andover special town meeting
approval on April 23rd
2024 of said transfers of real estate
located within the town of Andover to
and from the Kings and the town of
Andover have been or will be fully
accomplished in proper legal order and
format soon very soon it is hereby
resolved that attorney O'Brien be
authorized to do all that is legally
necessary to work with attorney McDermot
to properly and legally close said
transactions forth
with so okay authorizing me to finish up
the deal do it right legally properly
and that would include what Scott has
just
suggested okay Scott do you wanna
um do you want anything added to that I
mean am I gonna add anything to it or
can I can I let it go understanding that
you're requiring that the pins be
placed right now it's taped
right okay so um you have a copy of that
Jeff I do um you do somebody should
write
that are to be located okay we'll dop
we'll do a separate on there there's a
lot of them there are a lot of them yes
a
lot okay
um so I am going to sit there and make a
motion
that I'm gon do I have to read I'm gonna
read it again I don't really want to I
don't read it again all right um does
any anybody have an issue with with
Dennis's motion as he read it I mean
it's fairly simple we're giving him the
authority to sit there and finalize the
documents that are required to deal with
the lot line so did you just add a
motion to that I will I'm gonna sit
there and go we're gonna I'm gonna make
a motion to approve the resolution as
drafted by attorney O'Brien to allow him
the authority to finalize the lot line
agreement with the King family and
with the stipulation that all necessary
pins are placed on on the property
line the lot line agreement including
the uh the the real estate
transactions because it does include the
real estate
transaction okay
um is that
acceptable I'll second
that all right um
any further discussion on
this I am sending
the email to you guys okay no further
discussion all those in favor
I all those
opposed all those
abstained okay so three Z1
Eric okay
okay uh 9f a burnac block discussion um
I know this is come to us a lot and I
was over at the senior the Community
Center Senior Center multiple times this
last week and
um I know it's a piece of History it
should go in the
mum um but that's my personal opinion um
has everybody seen and have you seen
where it's supposed to go yes are you
comfortable with it being there yes I am
I think it's a good spot it's out of the
general traffic so that it won't be you
know damaged from somebody walking into
it it's protected it's got a security
camera right above it it's not going to
get affected by the Heat and the air
conditioning because that unit is on the
other side of the room and I think it's
a good spot for it um I know you'd say
like you say belongs in the museum but
our Anover Museum I don't think is
heated all the time and it wouldn't be a
good place for it it needs to be in a
climate controlled area I think he's
talking
about well in the um I got the copy of
the information from Jeff Ballard and
there are similar clocks in various
museums Historic Deerfield winter thir
Museum down in Delaware the Metropolitan
Museum of Art the Wadsworth and the
Connecticut Museum of culture and
history that's where there are five
other clocks similar to this one so I
think get one here I'm glad that we have
got the opportunity to have the Andover
not many of burnap's clocks were signed
as Andover most of them were centry or
East Windsor so it's good that we have
an Andover
okay
[Music]
um Eric is the
um was Tess engaged in this
placement she was with us so Tess saw
the placement Tess had basically asked
and you'll see under new
business um she had just suggested that
you know before you start putting stuff
in the community center you come up with
some kind of a policy on the
donations um you know and and really
decide who has the authority to suggest
that and you may wish to retain that
Authority as a board of Selectmen that's
certainly your choice
um you know but there's pluses and
minuses to everything right now you know
that I know of the library is uh wanting
to put a larger bookshelf in that
space um you know and they've had a some
discussions with Tess over that another
disabled veteran has requested or has
talked about putting a mural on one of
the walls in there um in that same room
but again that hasn't been so somebody
dropped off you know a giant Container
full of bulbs that they wanted Senior
Center to plant today people have
dropped off puzzles you know we need to
have some sort of policy on who decides
what gets put in the community center um
and what doesn't um and I think Tess is
probably the person that should be
writing that can you draft that with her
and bring it to us at a future meeting
and the question still ends up being
what do we what this clock has been on
our agenda agenda for a long time six
months if not
um so this is pretty listen I I think
it's a I mean I looked at it it's a
beautiful
clock I'm like it's a beautiful clock
and it's going to be um you know I know
we talked about not putting it in the
town hall because of potential damage
and we're kind of squirreling it away in
the puzzle room at the community
center yeah but I would say we're pretty
lucky to get that clock I know we're luy
to get
that let's just vote on it tonight then
yes
no I think that's a
good did you know Daniel
burnap where he
lived Post Farm yeah
does everybody know that realize that so
he lived across Route Six right
the that's where and he and he built and
he built clocks in the upstairs in there
yep that was the last place he built
them yeah so we're pretty lucky that's a
pretty good thing as much as it's a
safety concern of mine you know we would
be wouldn't be very good if we didn't
take this
I think it's a very good piece of
History
Handover but you know one of and's going
to be in charge of the safety of it
though that's the whole thing you know
one other thing that um Jeff mentioned
and this Daniel Pino who owns the clock
he does want to um make sure that it is
insured in the
building and also that
um he's retaining ownership he's just
loaning it to us and he's putting into
his his will and things like that that
if anything happened to him it would go
back to his
family so it's not a donation it's a
loan right so storing his expensive
clock for him is what we're doing yeah
and insuring yeah you can look at it
that way oh we have to ensure it also
well we need to know if it's insured for
being in the building or do we have to
have special Rider to cover that we
don't know
yet we will eventually that was a
question I asked kerma long ago um if
they want to ensure it if it's supposed
to be insured for full replacement value
then it does need that does need to be
listed directly on our insurance policy
that is value
$30,000 but the last
time we had it it got assessed but then
in the condition it was before
rebuilding it was not worth that so we
would have to get the assessor to
certify that that's what it's actually
worth now and then we could ensure it
for that then K will separately ensure
that as of September 30th
2023 it says $30,000 Insurance
value from the man who does the
appraisal have we sat there Eric and ask
kerel what this is going to cost the
town uh I don't think it was going to be
much I don't have an exact
amount did you get a
range no but the building's worth more
than a million dollars or a million
dollars so adding 30,000 to that is not
going to appreciably change the
insurance bill for that depends upon if
they put it as a writer and they require
us to pay separately as a piece of
jewelry or piece of art so
um yeah honestly last time I discussed
this was ker was about a year ago so I
can't tell you
that did they me mention how much of an
addition it would be about do you
remember
no how about we push it off another
month
oh what other questions do we have for
Eric to answer before the insurance cost
so we know what we're dealing with and
then if Ann and Tess are an agreement on
the spot and we'll come back the next
time and at least have an understanding
of here's our additional dollars it may
not be anything but if there's
additional cost to it we've got to know
about it
because right you know I don't want
to I don't want to try to indicate that
Tess was on board with putting the clock
here you would have to ask her that fine
directly I understand but the issue
is probably as close to you stated it as
possible is that uh it is and you know
it's a combination of all these things
it's very nice clock it's very pertinent
to the town of Andover it has a huge
historic
value we're Mr Pino is re restoring it
and this is a great place to put that
asset and have it have
some give some value to the town I mean
it's he is putting it somewhere and
getting it insured
and you know let's let's sit there and
see what we can do see how much it's GNA
cost Eric and then we'll come back next
meeting and we'll vote on it and get it
over with I mean we're not we're not
putting it there anytime soon it's not
even
restored yeah it's it's just about ready
to go just about ready to go the the man
who has been working on the the clock
mechanism is ready to put it back into
the case and and deliver it you know the
case is at the library right
now in the basement the case is at the
library
okay okay
um I still I personally still want to
know what the insurance company's going
to do on that if it's a piece of jewelry
or what it's about
and the policy
Eric go in Center by the
owner what do you mean by the policy the
the policy for what you
know agree is gonna be able to go in the
community center no no no this is just
on the clock Eric I know but another
another note for Eric I know but the
elephant in the room is we need to
really start clamping down and because
you're going to get all kinds of in kind
donations
and it's just going to get filled up
really quick
and I think right now we should just
have a policy of not accepting anything
unless it comes to us for
approval right for now yeah or is where
you g to put a shelf in one of those
rooms well I have no problem if you want
to make that the policy let's make at
the policy on the clock get the get the
insurance policy and understand the
insurance cost so we can understand what
the the the keeping that clock in our in
our community center is going to cost
us right and Jeff if you want to make a
motion that there are no donations no no
donations are allowed to be accepted by
the community center unless approved by
the board of Selectmen I have no problem
with that does everybody else have no
problem with that well why wouldn't the
community center or The Advisory Board
decide what goes in the community center
that's the whole reason you have the
advisory
boards yeah that's fine too but I just
don't want people just dropping things
off here you go here's your
puzzles okay so what I suggested to test
was that she develop a list of things
that they need at the community center
to equip it and post that and say people
if you want to donate
something donate one of these things or
um they could give a monetary donation
but don't just drop off your tag sale
stuff to us we we had a list we had a
list before working with Kathy pazi we
did have a list but I just don't know
okay so then we need to resurrect that
yeah because you know we we were going
to say we I think that was over a year
ago and we decided we were going to wait
till the community center was built I
think that kind of got put on the back
burner so probably need to re resurrect
that list like you
said and um I go up to the Ellington
Community Center frequently for a
support group Parkinson and uh they have
on their wall in the hallway a thing
that look like a tree with leaves and
each Leaf has a family or person's name
on it because they gave a donation to
The Community Center so people give
monetary donations that way and then
they're recognized by that now that
might be an idea to to do I mean this is
a fancy metal creation but it could even
be on wood or something like that um and
allow people away to contribute to the
community
center okay all good ideas so what what
do we passing are we passing a motion
that all
donations are required to go through the
uh advisory committee sounds good to
me so I'll make a motion that all
donations to the community Senior Center
uh are required to be approved in
advance by the center's advisory
committee
seconded all right further
discussion all those in favor I I for
nothing
okay
um and we're all good with the burnap
clock discussion being postponed until
Eric gets us the insurance issues on
that and we then get that
approved okay uh n9g bid result for the
roadside mower
Eric uh
so there
was so when we went
to uh get ready to auction the roadside
mower um Jay Tuttle and I talked about
it a little bit and our concern with
sending that to Richie Brothers the
auction house was number one their time
frame time frames are fairly short
during the auction and the second thing
was probably the only person that's
going to really buy a roadside mower
is another town or public or a Parks
division so we basically offered it on
the state of Connecticut's Public Works
kind of like uh uh Forum run by the t2
Center and said we would accept sealed
bids for that um and depending on what
those bids came in at we would either
accept the bid or we would send it uh we
would then go out to auction um and part
of the reason is when you send something
to auction you end up chewing quite a
bit of fees up uh with it and this gives
you the ability to do it um it's
basically a a transaction between the
two towns so we sent that information to
you as a board
um you know Jay seems to think that's a
pretty reasonable
uh fee um and that we would get more
money doing it this way selling it to
the town of Fairfield than we would be
if we uh we put it out to auction so
that's his recommendation but ultimately
you as a board have to agree with that
or not agree with
that so his max for this the those two
pieces of equipment was 30,600
uh
so yes correct so you're saying you got
$26,000 correct we we did only get one
bid on it we had bites and we had
several towns look at it but Fairfield
was the only town that actually uh put
in a bid on
it okay and what are the auction fees if
we went to the auction just is a
question uh I think they're around 10%
of the
total they're more for cheaper things
but for when you get up in the $220,000
range I think it's around 10% uh is what
the auction fee
is anybody
any problem with
this okay I don't um I just want to make
sure where the money goes where the
money's going to go after the sale and I
know Eric suggested the Public Works
fund but I think that limits us to what
we can spend the money on I think we
should probably put it in fund balance
or another account so we could use it
for other uses if need be if there's an
emergency
contingency yeah or
contingency you don't put it I mean we
don't put it in contingency we
don't and I think to be really to be
really honest technically I don't think
we can put the money in a
fund well I think it's got to go back in
the town general fund general fund and
then we would budget for it the next
cycle correct because that's what we did
with the newow
I'm just asking Eric that's just a that
that's like a charter issue for me I
mean I I think actually the board of
Finance has the ability to allocate that
but I don't know that would
be um that's either a town Treasurer or
an auditor question we've certainly done
it in the past okay um in the past the
board of Finance has generally returned
the money to the account you know for
which those Capital expenditures when
the fire truck uh was um when they just
sold the fire truck that money was
returned to the fire department's
Capital Equipment fund um in the past
Public Works equipment that got sold the
ex the profits went back into the Public
Works equipment fund I would have
assumed you would put the one for the
vehicle for senior Transportation into
the senior Transportation account or or
that one could go in the general fund
because there isn't a senior vehicle
Capital
fund but you know okay so so we're here
today to
approve the sale to Fairfield that's
what you would like us to do to start
with and then we we can go on to this
separate discussion about where we
recommend the board of Finance to put
the money is a different issue but we
don't vote we we we are not setting
where that money is going we can
recommend where we want the board of
Finance to put it but it's the board of
finances
responsibility correct as far as I
understand
um at least that's how it's been done in
the past I mean correct me if I'm wrong
the money for the new moow when it came
out of the general fund
correct no the money for the new mower
came out of the Public Works equipment
fund
okay well let's be let's be fair on that
one we had that money came we had a
special time meeting yeah it came from
the general fund Public Works fund yeah
there was no any fund there was no money
in any fund to do that well but what so
this is where it gets a little
complicated so what we and and this you
know we're still working out with the
auditor whether we really did take it
from the general fund last year or we
took it from this year's Public Works
equipment fund because what we went to
the public with was a plan that we would
agree to buy the mower now but they
would charge us in the current fiscal
year so we made the payment for that in
the current fiscal
year from the money that was deposited
into the Public Works equipment fund
correct correct we agreed to buy it
which we had to buy it before the end of
this fiscal
year but we didn't have to pay for it
until this fiscal year well isn't that
however isn't that on a loan program or
a lease program for five years yeah it
is a fiveyear lease program however the
the further complicating point is that
the town Treasurer thinks we can't
actually do it because we signed the L
loan documents technically before July 1
so that makes it last year's expenditure
not this year's
expenditure
so okay we have a question with the
auditor as to exactly how that gets
treated financially but you know the the
intention was always to spend money that
Public Works actually had that was not
meant to be an additional appropriation
for that vehicle the reason why it went
to a public meeting was because it's a
loan or a lease and all loans or leases
require public uh
approval and it requires public approval
because we had to sign it before we put
the new budget in place well so you
there was a timing issue related to this
whole thing it had to be done in that
manner because the rest of the payments
are all being budgeted within the town
standard budgeting process correct it
was just the first goor round
correct okay
so let's approve I mean if you know I'm
going to make a motion that we approve
the sale of the John Deere roadside
mower uh with two spare heads and the 20
2001 Alamo rear three-point hitch mower
head to the Town of
Fairfield or the town of Fairfield parks
and recck
department for
$6,000 I'll
Che okay further
discussion all those in favor
I okay four four to zero Eric
um now Jeff do you want to make an we
have 9h the equipment sale proceeds from
the equipment sales do you want to make
a a recommendation I talking about all
the Sals I'm talking about the the
tractor the the plow truck the senior
transportation bus all that equipment
where is that money going back
to so the answer is I don't know yet
it's going to go back to where the bord
of Finance decides to allocate it me I'd
like to put it back in the general fund
and then the board of Finance can
allocate it wherever they feel where
it's needed in the future
and I don't want to just put in one fund
and just you know pigeon hole it into
one area and one Nest
Egg okay sound sound reasonable that's
what you want to make as a motion I will
uh recommend to the board of finance
that that's where they put all the money
they just return it to the general fund
I'll make a motion that the sale of all
Surplus equipment from the town of over
in the recent sales um goes back to the
general
fund I I'll second for discussion
purposes from my end like and so Eric in
the past what what has happened is that
those funds would go back into so let's
sit there and say we bought a new
tractor we bought a new roadside Mower
and this is just the sale of those
assets goes back in has gone back into
in the past Department of Public Works
fund you know
so it offsets the overall cost of that
piece of equipment that was purchased
and you would do that on all sales if
you had a fund
available
so generally speaking in the past when
equipment was sold by public Works
Surplus equipment or old equipment that
money was returned to the capital fund
for Public Works equipment and the same
thing has occurred with the money for
the fire department um you know when
they sold the their truck recently that
went back into the fire department
Capital fund all right so that's what
we've done in the past and right doesn't
mean we have to do that motion the
motion that Jeff is asking for
and that I seconded is that that funds
from equipment any equipment sales from
any Department go back into the general
fund and then the board of Finance or
the board of Selectmen can give the
board of finance options as to where to
spend those
dollars okay I I don't have a problem
with it I mean basically what happens I
mean what would happen Eric right is
next year's budget would come up and we
would say okay we we had proceeds or or
revenue generated from the sale of some
type of asset of
$50,000 and we can sit there and say at
the budget cycle okay we we want to put
that money into um the AAS Capital fund
because they're going to require that
money and we still may have to budget
for Public Works to get equipment but
it's not the budgeted amount plus the
sales correct that's what I'm trying to
say yeah if that's what you choose to do
that's what you choose to do y all right
so so but I mean I mean for instance I
this is just a example I've noticed that
I me know Eric two years ago wanted to
get a a Chevy bolt electric vehicle now
they're down to around $122,000 we can
get one for 12 $113,000 with 15,000
miles on them so if that opportunity
comes up and we need another vehicle for
senior transportation that money's
available maybe we can allocate it for
that I just don't want to pinge it hold
in one account or one fund and not
another so well the the difference is if
it's in an existing
fund we' have to have Board of Finance
transfer it to another
fund yeah you could always transfer it
from fund to fund anyway but once it's
in the general fund you know then you
run into the uh was it quarter percent
or half percent limit at which you can
spend things out of so you know your
more likely to require a town meeting
but that may be okay that's fine with
me that that that no that's that's not
the charter revision the charter
revision if that passes will do away
with that no no it won't it will not do
away with Town meetings for those types
of options it
um it's not true because and you
wouldn't have to go to a town meeting if
it's all in Incorporated within the
budget process you'd end up at at a
budget meeting they could cut those
items that got approved out but it would
then go to referendum and get voted on
by the public in a budget as a budget
line item because yes also also what was
put in with the charter revision is and
simply because
um Adrien was not happy about the
roadside Mower and how the roadside
mower got approved he wanted to put in
uh an adjustment to the Charter that if
we were contemplating spending anything
over
$200,000 that it wouldn't go to town
meeting it would go directly to
referendum in the situation that we
bought this roadside Moore which is fine
he's trying to make it more transparent
and give a bigger group of people an
opportunity to vote on something rather
than the individuals that were at the
public meeting
so I sit there and look at this and go
okay if we don't buy
anything if there is an immediate need
and we have to sit there and buy
something in excess of
$200,000 we're going to end up in
referendum if we have something like
this and there wasn't an immediate need
to try to get it before the end of the
fiscal year it will just go into the
budget process and get
approved right I mean we would sit there
and say we want to buy we want to buy a
piece of equipment it's going to have a
5-year lease on it and this is what
we're going to budget for this year and
then the public either approves or
[Music]
disapproves but uh I have no problem so
we got a motion on the floor that all
all proceeds from equipment sales will
go into the general
fund basics of the motion that Jeff made
right off okay any further discussion on
the topic
all right all those in favor
I all those opposed or
[Music]
nothing okay so that was
9h new business um solar at AES did
everybody have an opportunity to look at
that uh and what Eric wrote related to
the solar program at
AES
um Eric I know I asked the question when
we were on with the chairman of the
board of education have we gotten any
information as to how they plan on
installing those and what is the what is
what is what is the issue if there's a
roof
problem so their goal is to use a
ballasted system to minimize
penetrations on the roof they're still
awaiting the final structural analysis
of the roof to see whether they can add
the roof floating for a ballasted system
as opposed to a direct penetration
system
um um the town would be
if there's if the town had to repair a
roof section under where the panels
went um we would have to pay them for
removal of it um so we could fix the
roof
underneath um that would be a town out
obligation not an obligation as part of
the
package um so it might be worth an
independent evaluation of all the roof
conditions Prior to doing it
um you know their roofing company has
evaluated it and said that they think
it's fine and it will the roof will be
okay for the length of the system um but
depending on you know whether you want
to take their word for it
or um your own you could hire a roofing
contractor Zen Commercial Roofing or an
equivalent to give you an evaluation
of how much how much of the roof was
done on the 400,000 dollar project that
we did before and how much of the the
panels are sitting on that newer
portion I don't know the answer to
that okay
which sections of the school we're
talking
about so if you looked through
the for can I just share my screen real
quick sure go
ahead
um let say
share so you can see the the roof layout
and where they they're not using the
gymnasium but they're using most of the
rest of the flat roofs
I mean wasn't the whole new roof that
was just done the
gymnasium I know the gymnasium was done
I don't know if other portions of the
roof were done also that was kind of
before my time so I just don't really
have a feel for it
and this has been evaluated anticipating
just snow Lo if we had really heavy snow
load in one year because I can remember
what was it uh 10 years ago 15 years ago
we were out shoveling School roofs
because of the
snow
[Music]
um well again we don't have their final
structural analysis back yet
um so I can't that's something I can't
uh specifically
address um the the basically they had to
decrease the system size pretty
considerably simply because the school
is not does not have three-phase power
and almost all of the larger solar
systems that go in are designed to work
with three-phase power and we just don't
have that um because we only have a 1200
amp singlephase power
availability um they changed to a
microinverter system and decreased the
system size fairly
considerably um but I went over their
numbers using kind of pretty realistic
numbers for New England in terms of
yearly
production um so I think what they're
claiming is realistic
um and I think that system would produce
about half the total electrical usage
for the
school um and
the given the the nres credits um I
think it's a it's a pretty good deal
overall um and it would definitely save
the you know the town quite a bit of
money but um it's not as much as they
were hoping for because they were hoping
for much bigger system size but given
the constraints of the current
electrical system that's kind of what
you're stuck
with oh for me it comes down to the roof
condition
and is
there is there a problem that we run
into after we install the solar panels
because I am in favor of this
but was it ever looked at to do like a
mini solar farm out behind the school in
that open area
um I did ask that of the
company and their response was you know
they generally won't consider
Standalone uh you know ground Mount
systems if they have a roof that's
capable of taking the system size that
they need and because even if they put a
a separate you know ground Mount system
they still can't increase the size
because the size is dictated on their
ability to tie into a single P
singlephase 12200 amp
panel yeah understood I'm just looking
at Future maintenance and then um you
know if we do get a storm the snow load
that's going to be on the roof
and along with the panels and not being
able to clear the snow off the roof
because the panels are there
or we're clearing the snow off the
panels you can clear the snow off the
panels it's just it's more difficult oh
much more difficult to shovel when the
panel's up there
yeah so what's our next step we're
waiting for documentation to come back
in from the the Solar
Company
uh yeah they have a bunch more they have
to to get you asked me to kind of vet
the process and look at what they're
actually putting on and determine
whether it's
realistic um I I don't feel like I'm
capable of
assessing um the roof condition for
commercial flat roofs so if you wanted
to do that you would have to we would
have to hire a you know a company to
evaluate the roofs um you know if that
that's a concern other than that wait
wait for their structural design uh
completion did you get the date that the
other I mean because I know when we did
the roof I mean Adrien was tremendously
involved in that
um but when we did that we did not do
the entire
roof understood I don't know the ages of
the roofs that are there okay I do not
well if you could get that from the AES
and find out the the ages of the I mean
because if you go back up to your your
image of of
panels I mean I remember it was the
entire we had a problem with the
gymnasium we did the entire part that
they're not utilizing and maybe a little
part that that first U is
on I don't think we did anything where
the majority of the entire system is on
the roof so I would like to know the
ages of those and we probably should
just pay to get a roofing contractor out
there to evaluate it right that's kind
of what I think I would I would hate to
put that up there and
then have a have a problem with the roof
and but I understand where the board of
education is going and they want to do
this but I would hate to sit there and
see there' be a a roof problem and then
we got to take the panels down and pay
somebody to take the panels down on top
of the cost of doing the roof I'd like
to know the ages number one that be my
biggest
issue what would be the cost for that
Eric to get that decided how what
condition the roof is in
think I don't know I mean usually I
don't know
I don't want to try to give you a number
that's not something I could
estimate I think we're all in agreement
about the condition of the roof I think
we all need to know
that now had the Solar Company checked
it too or not yeah the solar company
said they have no concerns with the roof
as it
is usually picky
so I don't know probably good because I
know everybody I've talked to that's
gotten solar panels lots of people say
Oh I thought the roof was good but I had
to get a new roof because the solar
company said they wouldn't put it on
without a new roof because they seem to
really check it at least for
houses well let's sit there Eric and um
try to find out a cost so I'm assuming
that the Solar Company is still going to
do some work and still has some things
to do and
we should sit there and find out if the
board of education has gotten a a
separate analysis of the roof I would
love to know the ages that would be
number one for me just get me get me the
ages for the
various spots that they're going to put
these panels on because in my head
knowing what we did before I got to
believe the entire right side of the
school up toward the old or up toward
the basketball courts that going that
way everything is that's all older
roof at least in my mind simply by what
was done six six eight years
ago but you know you think about it how
time flies if that new roof is eight
years old then the old roof
is old yeah we check it
out okay all right I think it's a great
idea i' like to see it's a good
idea um so we talked about 10B Community
Center policy on donations we already
did that yep all right um 10 C authorize
authorization to sign Master agreement
with do every 10
years yeah so this is at the very back
of the packet because it was really long
and nobody's going to read through it
basically every 10 years Department of
Transportation asks towns to uh
authorize a master Municipal agreement
with
do um regarding funding on roads and
things of that nature I looked Bob
Burbank was the last person to sign it
in 2014 it's coming up for Renewal um I
put it in your packet if you want to
renew it it would be something the first
Selman would have to
sign well I flipped through the 130
pages of it
okay so it's something that we need to
do to get the dot to do work with us
correct Jeff has to sign it yeah that's
a Jeff sign not a me
sign as far as I can
tell my motion to have Jeff sign the
authorization to master agreement for
the
do I'll second that
all right further discussion all those
in favor I or nothing okay uh Eric uh
10d signage hop River Trail Alliance
sign signage project on the trail okay
so I'll give you the cliff notes for
this the I showed you a picture of what
the sign looked like the do has produced
these um and they have requested that
the town s put one of these signs on all
the road approaches where roads cross
the Hop River Trail um so I drove all of
the crossings with the public works
Foreman um his concern which Echoes mine
is that we don't want these things
between The Pedestrian ahead sign and
The Pedestrian crossing sign because you
don't want a third sign in between to
distract so it's going to have to be uh
a
decision you know each intersection is
going to have these in a different spot
um if you Al if you um as the local
traffic Authority are willing to allow
the do to uh have their signs up it's
your you know your responsibility as a
local traffic Authority um you know it's
basically to build additional awareness
for the Connecticut state park
um they're trying to do this across the
board for hoop River Airline Lin um you
know Park trails so that's their request
um and I said I would bring that to you
as a board acting as the local traffic
Authority um and get your input but what
we did is we looked at it and it's kind
of a in it's kind of a Crossing by
Crossing on where we can put it without
it being visual ually
distracting um and causing problems
so if you're willing to have us put them
up I would work with the public works
foremen um you know all the materials
and signs will be supplied by the by the
de but Public Works would install them
um where they're at least invasive in
the
town I don't have a problem with you put
up the
what do they look like and you showed me
a picture before but uh what's the
dimensions on them uh they're 24 by
24 um for the ones that are going on the
town roads and then on the state roads I
think it's a 30
by3 uh triangular
sign wow those are huge
what Crossings what Crossings do they
have that they're going to put that big
sign on so the The Crossing will be in
one spot and that is uh at Lake Road
what the the D de wants to do is
identify one parking area basically
every X number of miles down the trail
um so it's publicly identified from
Route Six so those signs will be on
Route Six presuming that uh the
encroachment permit is pulled and they
get Authority from
do um to put them there so they want to
put a sign on Lake Road directing people
to the parking lot that's attached to
the trail yeah there's one going in at
Steels Crossing one going in there and
one going in on Hop River Road towards
that new parking area um after the
bridge is completed on op River
Road okay correct so you're asking the
approval of one sign
basically no there's we don't that
they're making two two basic requests
request number one is signs one sign
from each Direction on all the town
roads that cross the h River Trail
smaller ones right so like Lake Road for
instance and then what they've asked for
is there they're trying to get
permission from or they they've got
tentative permission from
do to put signs on uh Route Six
directing them to the larger parking
areas on the Hop River Trail and what I
like about that is the biggest problem
we have is people parking on some of the
smaller Crossings where there's no
parking and we've even specified it as
no parking but they park there anyway
because they don't know where to park so
I look at this as a way to direct where
visitors are likely to park um so
they're kind of out of the way and
they're in our biggest parking area and
leave the rest of the the official
parking areas for Town residents that's
how I kind of it
um you know I just think those big signs
at each Crossing area is kind of
Overkill I mean I look at the East Coast
Greenway signs they're much smaller and
it identifies you know the crossing and
that there's a Greenway
there I mean they're huge it's gonna be
overwhelming yep they big signs they're
asking for a sign Bridge Covered Bridge
or not
no far as I know
there's we haven't talked about that
one I don't think we have a sign for
those for that
Crossing
okay do we want to request smaller
signs I I just think it's overkill for
what we're doing on a small Road I think
like something maybe a foot 12 by 12 or
or you know even 8 by eight or
something's
more suitable sign are already made I
don't think you'd ever see an 8 by8 sign
driving that's pretty small I mean can
you see the the markers on the rail
trail when you're riding by them now no
because we made the numbers they made
the numbers too small and you know you
can't even see it riding by so I don't
think in a
car you know 25 24x 24 is the standard
kind of awareness
sign um the question is simply whether
you want to allow them to be placed on
down roads or
not that's really that's a that's I mean
I'm just sitting there thinking about
the one I drive by five times a day
that's a sign on each side of the
road is what they're asking for that big
so one if you're coming down Lake Road
you would see one sign that says
hop River Trail State Park linear state
park and if you were coming the other
direction you were coming up Lake Road
you would see as sign do that it's like
you don't know this go there because
there's already a crossing sign in a big
crosswalk all
right I I don't I don't necessarily have
a huge problem with it I think it's a it
is a big sign I mean it's it's kind of I
think it's I mean honestly I think it's
kind of overkill for the road in the
area are the signs already made here
yep can you share your screen I thought
you had a sample of it right uh yep I
certainly can hang on can we take him
down if we make a
mistake um I just I hate putting more
signage up because you know what it does
for people crying to cross the path it
creates sine problems well and and to be
honest that was my
biggest
concern and the concern of the Public
Works
Foreman is that we have to put these
very carefully so they don't affect site
lines which is why we can't say to you
we're going to put them X number of feet
from the trail because it's going to be
a decision on each Road where they don't
impact sight
lines um like Lake Road I think we can
put one of these on the backs of The
Pedestrian
signs right um and they don't affect The
Pedestrian ahead visibility and they're
the same size as the existing signs but
on some roads we can't put them there so
I think we really have to tailor the
approach
to each road so that they're you know
they don't impact sight lines and
they're not in between the existing stop
ahead and pedestrian cross walk side if
that makes sense I mean I don't know why
you just don't put them at the entrance
when you go from the road to the trail
why don't you just put them on the trail
going both ways you know basically
saying you're on the Hop River
Trail Co Greenway
but you don't need a those signs are on
the
trail right I mean I don't think most I
I don't know I'm more concerned with The
Pedestrian crossing signs in the
crosswalk than putting these there I
think they're just going to be a
huge detriment to people trying to see
up and down the road to
cross that's my
opinion well what I would say is we're
not going to put them anywhere where it
impacts the Cy line of anybody crossing
the triail
right how do you do that though it's
gonna be difficult because You' already
got indrian crossing
signs well I
mean what I'm saying is that a lot of
these are going to be quite far away
from the trail like shot Mill I think
there's an existing sign we can put it
on it's at least a quarter mile back
from the trail that's probably the most
logical point for it okay what I can't
give you is the same scheme for every
single road because we looked at all the
roads and said okay here where could we
put the sign where where it doesn't
impact
everything I mean stupid question could
you just put them underneath the
pedestrian signs on the same
pole no because underneath All The
Pedestrian signs you have the
enhanced reflective strip so which is
part of what an enhanced crosswalk
supposed to have so no I don't think you
can put them directly
under did you mention that you're
putting on the back of some other
signs is that what
you what I'm saying is I Can't Tell You
On Any Given Road where we're going to
put these things exactly so that it does
not impact sight lines but our goal if
we put them if you authorize them is to
put these in such a place that you do
see them when you're driving but it's
it's in a position it's far enough away
that does not impact the current
pedestrian Crossing signage because
that's a really important thing there
because that's a safety that's good
that's good so Eric if we give you the
authority to put them up you're going to
put them up in the best possible spot
for the town of Andel
that is my goal yes and and if you can't
find a good spot you're not going to put
it up correct that is correct okay I
authorize
Eric to have Jay put up these signs
wherever
they find them in a safe
spot where they can be put in a safe
spot I'll second then okay so you're
making a motion for that yeah motion
yep almost it's almost 11 o'clock right
I know um all right so you're making a
motion to install the signs in
appropriate places that don't impede
safety okay yeah Eric you you have your
marching orders right we're gonna vote
on this now all those in favor
I all those
opposed Jeff Murray so 31 I think it's a
safety
violation yes so so um 31 Eric don't put
him in if you don't put them up nobody
on this board is going to be upset they
didn't go up
understood you know my my primary goal
is the safety of Trail users in the
public in general I'm not going to put
up any signs which I think are visually
distracting I'm not going to put them up
where I think it's visually
distracting okay um um do we have to do
anything with the Deep Trail sign of on
town roads no uh that was the Deep Trail
signage on town roads we have to do
anything with the en coach permits for
the sign on Route Six um so my question
for you is are you opposed to the DP
signs going up indicating that there is
Trail parking on Lake
Road I mean I'm not I mean there's
already Trail parking on Lake Road so
what would we get we would get
potentially a passer by
that comes and parks and uses the
trail
correct it's a huge sign I mean that's
just a big sign that's that's like a
billboard going on Route Six for the
trail and it's not this sign is it is it
this sign just increased in size
yep Z sign six inches bigger and it's
going to say Trail parking what's it
going to say yeah I think they're just
going to have an arrow underneath it
with direction to the
parking is their
plan and when are they wanting to
install
these
um that picture I would think they want
them installed sooner rather than later
but the bigger signs haven't been
created yet
um well tell tell them to get us the
graphics so we sit there and see what
they're talking
about okay and you want to review that
at the next meeting then sure
okay okay anybody else have a problem
with
that no okay uh item 11 approval of
minute meetings from our 9 to9 2024
regular
meeting approve make a motion we approve
the meetings from the meeting minutes
from 9 our meeting at 99
2024 second and seconded it all those in
favor
I okay uh the treasurers report was
included in our packet any questions for
Eric related to that information
okay
um yeah go
through
uh the check register was
there nothing
else and then there was other
information provided
so Eric do you have anything to add on
any of the other items because I didn't
see the town Aid Road I didn't see an
appropriation transfer I didn't see an
overe expenditure report or summary of
audit status were they
there uh they were not there's nothing
there for that um I can say verbally the
uh Town
treasure is getting fairly close to
being complete with her portion of the
uh audit um and is talking about turning
that over to M we just have to go over
the capital asset list there's not a lot
left to do for that before the town is
complete with its portion of the audit
all right good news
um anybody have anything else they want
to deal with in that section I was just
wondering why why is the Board of Ed um
check register and such in here that's
something we' never
had because nobody ever sent it to me so
I could put it
sobody send it to you this
time no they didn't send it to
me so
and I I was ignoring that to sit there
and move on so we don't
have a significant level of discussion
related to that item okay okay are we
are we good
then if the board doesn't want to see
that in the future I'm happy to leave it
out it's a pain to get it anyway Eric
it's great to have more information it
is it is it's always good to have
information I will never tell you not to
provide us information
but let's move
on Tax Collector's report we got the
dashboard for the tax
collector it shows our total balance and
total due
um it differs slightly from the
treasurer's report up top but it was
it's really close
[Music]
so
um tax collector also
included unpaid
taxes on
properties bunch of pages too many
pages and then there's a section on
page 133 of tax
refunds or $1,000
2367 of which my wife is
$123.6 so I will not be voting on
this okay we're not going to approve
those come on let's go I'll move to
approve them refunds
so all right all those in favor I three
opposed alap POS
31 all
right um departmental reports were all
in the package the assessor's office
that was there the building department
we made
8,975 last
month in the building department
Department of Public Works and I believe
that was it um how much do we make in
our stiff
account well
uh I don't have that number for you this
month my apologies No it should be
there it would be on the first page of
the treasures report page
86 should have been there or it's on the
bottom no interest income the month uh
for the 3 months we earned $
38,866
so approximately
$113,000 per month on the stiff
account very
good uh anybody have any questions on
the
um the departmental reports you know I'd
rather just keep moving this long and
get to public speak if anybody has any
problems with any of the departmental
reports please speak
now hold your P okay Eric no
correspondence
uh
nope okay can you stop sharing your
screen oh sure sorry about that didn't
realize I was still sharing it okay um
we're gonna move on to item 16 public
speak um Bob hamburger you're first if
you're
awake yes I'm awake thank you um so I is
yeah I see attorney O'Brien is still on
with us I wanted to to just clarify ify
something that was said a long time ago
by uh Mr King in his uh um proposal for
for selecting him you know in his his
stump speech he um said very clearly and
definitively that it was it it was there
in writing in the law that a republican
had to be picked because um Paula King
was a Republican and you know this kind
of stands in Sharp contrast with you
know I'm looking at in in the packet for
this meeting attorney O'Brien drafted it
looked to be a seven or eight page
analysis of what the minority
representation actually meant complete
with uh citations of of uh cases you
know precedent law as well as citations
relevant citations of of state law so I
just wanted to to get on the record that
it is the town attorney's uh learned
opinion that it a republican was not
necessary uh merely just the absence of
a Democrat is that correct
Dennis yes that's my
opinion all right thank you I just
wanted to correct that for the
record
okay um Shannon Lowden jumped up into
second place you're up terrific thank
you Jeff so I'm G to answer your
question about why the tri board policy
is necessary and that's because there is
no defined process for how the Board of
Education funds its capital
projects or for how the Board of
Education might deposit money into or
withdraw money from the newly created as
AES Capital fund and there are current
projects at AES that require funding and
might be considered capital
projects and now I'm going to spend two
minutes just because I'm tired of
addressing all these issues and
answering the same questions the bottom
line is the policy was brought about
after there was a fundamental
disagreement between the town the board
of Selectmen and the Board of Education
as to the board of EDS statutory
authority to pay for capital projects at
AES so at the meeting of the three
boards one year ago Robert and England
and I were tasked to draft a policy
between the Board of Ed and the board of
Finance not the board of Selectmen to
address how capital projects might be
considered at AES in the future the
board of Finance later suggested that
the board of Selectmen also be involved
in the process so we drafted a tri board
policy as far as the Board of Ed is
concerned it had the statute Authority
statutory authority to do exactly what
it did in June of
2023 which was to reallocate money that
had been budgeted to it to repay the
upper parking lot at AES so the Board of
Ed believes that there already is a
process but the town
disagreed so if there is a process a
policy wouldn't have been
necessary by Charter the Board of Ed is
not subject to the CIP process which is
in line with State Statute especially
because there is no definition in the
statutes about what is a capital project
and many budgeted Investments at AES
exceed the CIP dollar threshold further
the CIP consideration and approval
doesn't complete the process all the CIP
does is approve of capital projects and
projects approved by CIP are then
considered by the board of Selectmen and
board of Finance but not the board of
education so the Board of Education
agreed that it needed a capital Fund in
addition to the 2% non-aps account given
that as somebody said there are
statutory limitations and I believe this
was the disagreement between Dennis and
Eric um the statute says specifically
and if the auditor disagrees we'll see
that each expenditure from the 2%
non-aps account quote unquote shall be
made only for educational
purposes so there currently is no policy
to allow the Board of Education to have
any say as to how the money in the
account that was created by the town for
AES capital projects will be spent which
is contrary to State Statute which says
that the Board of Ed is the one who's
responsible for projects in its
buildings
on its land
Etc I disagree with Dennis's proposed
agreement and how it changed the policy
that I spent a year crafting um and I'll
leave it at that um because you've
offered Jeff to have people uh write to
Dennis about how we might do that the
only other thing that I'll suggest is um
if there doesn't want to be a tri board
policy maybe what happens is the Board
of Ed just asked the board of Finance to
put money in the capital account and the
board of Finance says okay puts the
money in the capital account and then
when the Board of Education needs to
spend money on capital projects it asked
the board of Finance to take the money
out of the account that's what I thought
was initially proposed but that didn't
fly so I'll leave it at that thanks very
much for letting me speak so
long thank you Bill
Penn I'm good thank
you uh Doris
Maldonado nothing to say Thank
You Stephen
King um first and foremost I uh have to
disagree with attorney O'Brien's
interpretation of the statute and I was
going to plan on sending the information
to the Secretary of State for uh uh to
to find a a little bit more about this I
was also curious about the uh um
information in the charter regarding Tha
votes uh why wasn't that
addressed you're asking for a direct
answer it had never become a problem
before there's specific language in the
charter regarding resolving
ties then we're going to have to look at
that I think that's in the elections
isn't it I I don't have it in front of
me Steve but
uh about flipping a coin or something
or I don't I don't know I I've seen so
many of these things I I I don't I'll
take a look at it happy to I just
happened to do a quick search and uh
happen to find that so just you might
want to take a closer look at I will
I'll be glad
to okay Diane granier
yes
hello it's it's a late one
right for us people live insomnia that's
no problem getting old has its
advantages um I just wanted to go back
to um the Safety Committee report um
there was something in there about um
providing stop the bleed kits for the
new community center and for for the I
guess Town Hall um could you look at the
library as
well can can they get one over there um
and the F same thing with the first aid
kit um I don't know what the libraries
um first aid kit looks like but if if
you're looking at the community center
Town Hall um the library too could could
take could use a look at or something
like that so I appreciate you taking a
look at that for me all right Jo any
thanks Jeff um I just I'll go quick but
um I just wanted to say that I wanted to
commend um the four individuals that
spoke tonight I always like to listen to
people that are interested in community
service and I thought they all brought a
lot to the table disappointed that there
couldn't be a resolution with such good
candidates um and I I'm going to look on
the charter too because I know that we
had a lot of our recent Board of Finance
we had a lot of you know ties and went
back and forth quite a bit so um I'd be
interested in hearing that because it's
kind of disappointing to have to go back
out when we had you know several um
candidates that seem that they could
bring something good to the table
anyways um the and then um I'm
definitely not in favor of those signs
without all of you going out and taking
a look at it it just seems like so many
signs to bring into the town so big um
yeah I'm not in favor of that without
taking a good look how big of a sign
would look out there on all those you
know our town so small and it seems like
there's going to be so many of them
around town I'm just really concerned
about that and I truly feel I have to
bring this up I feel like trails are
taking over a lot of our meetings and
everything's about trails and this and
that when we have so many projects in
town that are still undone great grant
money that we we have been given and
we're still waiting for projects to be
completed I'm all about walking Health
biking trails but I feel like every
every meeting there's a huge issue about
Trails when we have a lot more things to
talk about thank you thank you lean
Hutchinson hi um nothing thank you okay
Rachel
Bowman nothing thank
you okay did I miss any
anyone okay all right thank you
everybody for attending we're going to
move on to item 17 adjournment just
before we adjourn I just looked at the
um the charter it says it says Municipal
elections I don't know if this
replacement is an election that's it
says Municipal elections it's just if
there's a tie is
acquaints so does that does it apply I
don't know that's for Dennis to de
side all right um item 17 adjournment
I'll make a motion to adjourn seconded
all those in favor I all right thank you
very much for attending everybody we
appreciate it